# Emotion-Based-Music-Player-System.
Introduction: Music is one of the widely accepted cultures and languages which can be accepted by any type of people. Music does fill the silence and can hide the noise. It is an excellent way for a person to relieve stress. Choice of music of a person is dependent on the person’s mood. Mood ofa person can be inferred from the person’s emotion and emotions can be inferred from theperson's facial expressions. According to the survey, two-thirds of people's communication iscarried through non-verbal communication and facial expression constitutes the largestcomponent in this percentage.This project will embark on a groundbreaking journey to develop an “Emotion Based Music Player” that will accurately detect the emotion of a user and play the music accordingly. Nowadays, emotion detection is considered intrinsic in many applications such as retail, education, medical diagnosis, video gaming, security, criminal etc.
Project Overview: The Emotion-Based Music Player(EMP) system will be an innovative and robust application designed to detect emotions and play an appropriate song from a list of songsorganized to fit particular moods. First, the user will reflect their emotion through facial expression. After that, the device will detect the condition of the facial expression, analyze it and interpret the emotion. After determining the user's emotion, the music player will play songsthat can suit the detected emotional state.
 Objective: The main objective of this project will be to automatically play user-preferred music based on emotion identification.This model will aim to accurately detect basic emotions, namely happy, angry, neutral, sad, surprised.The system will aim to raise user engagement and satisfaction levels using music recommendation systems.Thesystem will be user-friendly and simplistic
